getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

Welcome to your new foam workspace, let's get you started.

Let's go through this to set up your repo:

- [ ] you can navigate the links between your notes by `cmd+click` (or `ctrl+click` on Windows) on a wikilink. Here, go to your [[inbox]]

- [ ] to see how your notes are connected, execute the `Foam: Show Graph` command
  - **tip** - `cmd+click` on a node to navigate to it
  - **tip** - keep the graph open. As you navigate your files, it will focus on the active note, so you can at a glance see how it's connected in your knowledge base

- [ ] #tags can be used to further organize your content. Look at the `Tag Explorer` view on the left panel to find and navigate the tags in your knowledge base

- [ ] You can use Foam for your daily notes, or journaling. Execute now the `Foam: Open Daily Note` command to create a new file in your `journal` folder.
  - **tip** - you can customize location, filename and note title for you daily notes in the settings

- [ ] The section at the end of this file contains [wikilink definitions](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/features/link-reference-definitions), which enable navigation of your notes from GitHub's web UI, and in general to make `[[wikilinks]]` understood by any markdown parser.
  - **tip** - Foam will sync links and definitions  whenever you save the file
  - **tip** - If you are just using foam in VsCode you can turn off wikilink definitions in your VsCode settings

- [ ] Want to see how to manage your tasks? Go to the [[todo]] note

- [ ] To explore all the Foam settings, press `cmd+,`, then `Extensions > Foam`

- [ ] Living within VsCode, Foam can be customized in many ways! Look at the [Foam Recipes](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/recipes/recipes) for ideas!

- [ ] Join the [Foam community on Discord](https://discord.gg/HV2tn2FpEk), introduce yourself and leave a message on how you found Foam and how the onboarding went :) We are always keen to do better

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[inbox]: inbox.md "Inbox"
[todo]: todo.md "Todo"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"

Commit message:

added instructions re pasting images

getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

Welcome to your new foam workspace, let's get you started.

Let's go through this to set up your repo:

- [ ] you can navigate the links between your notes by `cmd+click` (or `ctrl+click` on Windows) on a wikilink. Here, go to your [[inbox]]

- [ ] to see how your notes are connected, execute the `Foam: Show Graph` command
  - **tip** - `cmd+click` on a node to navigate to it
  - **tip** - keep the graph open. As you navigate your files, it will focus on the active note, so you can at a glance see how it's connected in your knowledge base

- [ ] #tags can be used to further organize your content. Look at the `Tag Explorer` view on the left panel to find and navigate the tags in your knowledge base

- [ ] You can use Foam for your daily notes, or journaling. Execute now the `Foam: Open Daily Note` command to create a new file in your `journal` folder.
  - **tip** - you can customize location, filename and note title for you daily notes in the settings

- [ ] The section at the end of this file contains [wikilink definitions](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/features/link-reference-definitions), which enable navigation of your notes from GitHub's web UI, and in general to make `[[wikilinks]]` understood by any markdown parser.
  - **tip** - Foam will sync links and definitions  whenever you save the file
  - **tip** - If you are just using foam in VsCode you can turn off wikilink definitions in your VsCode settings

- [ ] You can also paste images in your Foam, just press `cmd+alt+v` to create the image file and link to it from your note

- [ ] Want to see how to manage your tasks? Go to the [[todo]] note

- [ ] To explore all the Foam settings, press `cmd+,`, then `Extensions > Foam`

- [ ] Living within VsCode, Foam can be customized in many ways! Look at the [Foam Recipes](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/recipes/recipes) for ideas!

- [ ] Join the [Foam community on Discord](https://discord.gg/HV2tn2FpEk), introduce yourself and leave a message on how you found Foam and how the onboarding went :) We are always keen to do better

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[inbox]: inbox.md "Inbox"
[todo]: todo.md "Todo"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
