readme.md, before:

# Foam

👋 Welcome to your new Foam Workspace!

## Getting started

This documentation assumes that you have a GitHub account and have [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) installed on your Linux/MacOS/Windows machine.

1. If you haven't yet, browse over to the main [Foam documentation workspace](https://foambubble.github.io/foam) to get an idea of what Foam is and how to use it.
2. Press "Use this template" button at [foam-template](https://github.com/foambubble/foam-template/generate) (that's this repository!) to fork it to your own GitHub account. If you want to keep your thoughts to yourself, remember to set the repository private.
3. [Clone the repository to your local machine](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository) and open it in VS Code.

    *Open the repository as a folder using the `File > Open...` menu item. In VS Code, "open workspace" refers to [multi-root workspaces](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces).*

4. When prompted to install recommended extensions, click **Install all** (or **Show Recommendations** if you want to review and install them one by one)

After setting up the repository, open [.vscode/settings.json](.vscode/settings.json) and edit, add or remove any settings you'd like for your Foam workspace.

To learn more about how to use **Foam**, read the [Recipes](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/recipes/recipes) bubbles of the Foam documentation workspace.


## Using Foam

We've created a few Bubbles (markdown documents) to get you started.

- [[inbox]] - a place to write down quick notes to be categorised later
- [[foam-tips]] - tips to get the most out of your Foam workspace
- [[todo]] - a place to keep track of things to do



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[inbox]: inbox.md "Inbox"
[foam-tips]: foam-tips.md "Foam tips"
[todo]: todo.md "Todo"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"

Commit message:

added a getting started guide, and some settings defaults

readme.md, after:

# Foam

👋 Welcome to your new Foam Knowledge Base!

## Getting started

This documentation assumes that you have a GitHub account and have [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) installed on your Linux/MacOS/Windows machine.

1. If you haven't yet, browse over to the main [Foam documentation](https://foambubble.github.io/foam) to get an idea of what Foam is and how to use it.
2. Press "Use this template" button at [foam-template](https://github.com/foambubble/foam-template/generate) (that's this repository!) to fork it to your own GitHub account. If you want to keep your thoughts to yourself, remember to set the repository private.
3. [Clone the repository to your local machine](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository) and open it in VS Code.

    *Open the repository as a folder using the `File > Open...` menu item.*

4. When prompted to install recommended extensions, click **Install all** (or **Show Recommendations** if you want to review and install them one by one)

After setting up the repository, head to [[getting-started]] to get familiar with your new knowledge base!

To learn more about how to use **Foam**, read the [Recipes](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/recipes/recipes) bubbles of the Foam documentation workspace.


## Using Foam

We've created a few Bubbles (markdown documents) to get you started.

- [[inbox]] - a place to write down quick notes to be categorised later
- [[getting-started]] - learn how to use your Foam workspace
- [[todo]] - a place to keep track of things to do



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[getting-started]: getting-started.md "Getting Started"
[inbox]: inbox.md "Inbox"
[todo]: todo.md "Todo"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
